boards/arm/mimxrt1010_evk/doc/index.rst, before:

.. _mimxrt1010_evk:

NXP MIMXRT1010-EVK
##################

Overview
********

The i.MX RT1010 offers a new entry-point into the i.MX RT crossover processor
series by providing the lowest-cost LQFP package option, combined with the
high performance and ease-of-use known throughout the entire i.MX RT series.
This device is fully supported by NXP’s MCUXpresso Software and Tools.

.. image:: mimxrt1010_evk.jpg
   :align: center
   :alt: MIMXRT1010-EVK

Hardware
********

- MIMXRT1011DAE5A MCU

- Memory

  - 128 Mbit QSPI Flash

- Connectivity

  - Micro USB host and OTG connectors
  - Arduino interface

- Audio

  - Audio Codec
  - 4-pole audio headphone jack
  - External speaker connection
  - Microphone

- Debug

  - JTAG 10-pin connector
  - OpenSDA with DAPLink

For more information about the MIMXRT1010 SoC and MIMXRT1010-EVK board, see
these references:

- `i.MX RT1010 Website`_
- `i.MX RT1010 Datasheet`_
- `i.MX RT1010 Reference Manual`_
- `MIMXRT1010-EVK Website`_
- `MIMXRT1010-EVK User Guide`_
- `MIMXRT1010-EVK Design Files`_

Supported Features
==================

The mimxrt1010_evk board configuration supports the hardware features listed
below.  For additional features not yet supported, please also refer to the
:ref:`mimxrt1064_evk` , which is the superset board in NXP's i.MX RT10xx family.
NXP prioritizes enabling the superset board with NXP's Full Platform Support for
Zephyr.  Therefore, the mimxrt1064_evk board may have additional features
already supported, which can also be re-used on this mimxrt1010_evk board:

+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component                    |
+===========+============+=====================================+
| NVIC      | on-chip    | nested vector interrupt controller  |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SYSTICK   | on-chip    | systick                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| GPIO      | on-chip    | gpio                                |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SPI       | on-chip    | spi                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| I2C       | on-chip    | i2c                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| UART      | on-chip    | serial port-polling;                |
|           |            | serial port-interrupt               |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| USB       | on-chip    | USB device                          |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| ADC       | on-chip    | adc                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| GPT       | on-chip    | gpt                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| TRNG      | on-chip    | entropy                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+

The default configuration can be found in the defconfig file:
``boards/arm/mimxrt1010_evk/mimxrt1010_evk_defconfig``

Other hardware features are not currently supported by the port.

Connections and I/Os
====================

The MIMXRT1010 SoC has five pairs of pinmux/gpio controllers.

+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| Name          | Function        | Usage                     |
+===============+=================+===========================+
| GPIO_11       | GPIO            | LED                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_05    | GPIO            | SW4                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_10       | LPUART1_TX      | UART Console              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_09       | LPUART1_RX      | UART Console              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_01       | LPI2C1_SDA      | I2C SDA                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_02       | LPI2C1_CLK      | I2C SCL                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_03    | LPSPI1_SDI      | SPI                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_04    | LPSPI1_SDO      | SPI                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_05    | LPSPI1_PCS0     | SPI                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_06    | LPSPI1_SCK      | SPI                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_01    | ADC             | ADC1 Channel 1            |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_02    | ADC             | ADC1 Channel 2            |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+

System Clock
============

The MIMXRT1010 SoC is configured to use the 32 KHz low frequency oscillator on
the board as a source for the GPT timer to generate a system clock.

Serial Port
===========

The MIMXRT1010 SoC has four UARTs. ``LPUART1`` is configured for the console,
and the remaining are not used.

Programming and Debugging
*************************

Build and flash applications as usual (see :ref:`build_an_application` and
:ref:`application_run` for more details).

Configuring a Debug Probe
=========================

A debug probe is used for both flashing and debugging the board. This board is
configured by default to use the :ref:`opensda-daplink-onboard-debug-probe`,
however the :ref:`pyocd-debug-host-tools` do not yet support programming the
external flashes on this board so you must reconfigure the board for one of the
following debug probes instead.

:ref:`jlink-external-debug-probe`
-------------------------------------------

Install the :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools` and make sure they are in your search
path.

Attach a J-Link 10-pin connector to J55. Check that jumpers J61 and J62 are
**off** (they are on by default when boards ship from the factory) to ensure
SWD signals are disconnected from the OpenSDA microcontroller.

Configuring a Console
=====================

Regardless of your choice in debug probe, we will use the OpenSDA
microcontroller as a usb-to-serial adapter for the serial console. Check that
jumpers J31 and J32 are **on** (they are on by default when boards ship from
the factory) to connect UART signals to the OpenSDA microcontroller.

Connect a USB cable from your PC to J41.

Use the following settings with your serial terminal of choice (minicom, putty,
etc.):

- Speed: 115200
- Data: 8 bits
- Parity: None
- Stop bits: 1

Flashing
========

Here is an example for the :ref:`hello_world` application.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
    :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
    :board: mimxrt1010_evk
    :goals: flash

Open a serial terminal, reset the board (press the SW9 button), and you should
see the following message in the terminal:

.. code-block:: console

    Hello World! mimxrt1010_evk


.. _MIMXRT1010-EVK Website:
   https://www.nxp.com/MIMXRT1010-EVK

.. _MIMXRT1010-EVK User Guide:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=MIMXRT1010EVKHUG

.. _MIMXRT1010-EVK Design Files:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=IMXRT1010-EVK-DESIGN-FILES

.. _i.MX RT1010 Website:
   https://www.nxp.com/imxrt1010

.. _i.MX RT1010 Datasheet:
   https://www.nxp.com/docs/en/data-sheet/IMXRT1010CEC.pdf

.. _i.MX RT1010 Reference Manual:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=IMXRT1010RM

Commit message:

boards: arm: update documentation for imxrt to reflect use of systick
Update documentation for imxrt boards to reflect the default clock
source being systick, and clarify that the GPT timer will only be
used in low power modes. Add a build time warning when the GPT
timer is enabled, so that the user will be aware of the resolution
tradeoff when using the GPT timer.

Signed-off-by: Daniel DeGrasse <daniel.degrasse@nxp.com>

boards/arm/mimxrt1010_evk/doc/index.rst, after:

.. _mimxrt1010_evk:

NXP MIMXRT1010-EVK
##################

Overview
********

The i.MX RT1010 offer a new entry-point into the i.MX RT crossover processor
series by providing the lowest-cost LQFP package option, combined with the
high performance and ease-of-use known throughout the entire i.MX RT series.
This device is fully supported by NXP’s MCUXpresso Software and Tools.

.. image:: mimxrt1010_evk.jpg
   :align: center
   :alt: MIMXRT1010-EVK

Hardware
********

- MIMXRT1011DAE5A MCU

- Memory

  - 128 Mbit QSPI Flash

- Connectivity

  - Micro USB host and OTG connectors
  - Arduino interface

- Audio

  - Audio Codec
  - 4-pole audio headphone jack
  - External speaker connection
  - Microphone

- Debug

  - JTAG 10-pin connector
  - OpenSDA with DAPLink

For more information about the MIMXRT1010 SoC and MIMXRT1010-EVK board, see
these references:

- `i.MX RT1010 Website`_
- `i.MX RT1010 Datasheet`_
- `i.MX RT1010 Reference Manual`_
- `MIMXRT1010-EVK Website`_
- `MIMXRT1010-EVK User Guide`_
- `MIMXRT1010-EVK Design Files`_

Supported Features
==================

The mimxrt1010_evk board configuration supports the hardware features listed
below.  For additional features not yet supported, please also refer to the
:ref:`mimxrt1064_evk` , which is the superset board in NXP's i.MX RT10xx family.
NXP prioritizes enabling the superset board with NXP's Full Platform Support for
Zephyr.  Therefore, the mimxrt1064_evk board may have additional features
already supported, which can also be re-used on this mimxrt1010_evk board:

+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component                    |
+===========+============+=====================================+
| NVIC      | on-chip    | nested vector interrupt controller  |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SYSTICK   | on-chip    | systick                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| GPIO      | on-chip    | gpio                                |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SPI       | on-chip    | spi                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| I2C       | on-chip    | i2c                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| UART      | on-chip    | serial port-polling;                |
|           |            | serial port-interrupt               |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| USB       | on-chip    | USB device                          |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| ADC       | on-chip    | adc                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| GPT       | on-chip    | gpt                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| TRNG      | on-chip    | entropy                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+

The default configuration can be found in the defconfig file:
``boards/arm/mimxrt1010_evk/mimxrt1010_evk_defconfig``

Other hardware features are not currently supported by the port.

Connections and I/Os
====================

The MIMXRT1010 SoC has five pairs of pinmux/gpio controllers.

+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| Name          | Function        | Usage                     |
+===============+=================+===========================+
| GPIO_11       | GPIO            | LED                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_05    | GPIO            | SW4                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_10       | LPUART1_TX      | UART Console              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_09       | LPUART1_RX      | UART Console              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_01       | LPI2C1_SDA      | I2C SDA                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_02       | LPI2C1_CLK      | I2C SCL                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_03    | LPSPI1_SDI      | SPI                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_04    | LPSPI1_SDO      | SPI                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_05    | LPSPI1_PCS0     | SPI                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_06    | LPSPI1_SCK      | SPI                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_01    | ADC             | ADC1 Channel 1            |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_02    | ADC             | ADC1 Channel 2            |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+

System Clock
============

The MIMXRT1010 SoC is configured to use SysTick as the system clock source,
running at 500MHz.

When power management is enabled, the 32 KHz low frequency
oscillator on the board will be used as a source for the GPT timer to
generate a system clock. This clock enables lower power states, at the
cost of reduced resolution

Serial Port
===========

The MIMXRT1010 SoC has four UARTs. ``LPUART1`` is configured for the console,
and the remaining are not used.

Programming and Debugging
*************************

Build and flash applications as usual (see :ref:`build_an_application` and
:ref:`application_run` for more details).

Configuring a Debug Probe
=========================

A debug probe is used for both flashing and debugging the board. This board is
configured by default to use the :ref:`opensda-daplink-onboard-debug-probe`,
however the :ref:`pyocd-debug-host-tools` do not yet support programming the
external flashes on this board so you must reconfigure the board for one of the
following debug probes instead.

:ref:`jlink-external-debug-probe`
-------------------------------------------

Install the :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools` and make sure they are in your search
path.

Attach a J-Link 10-pin connector to J55. Check that jumpers J61 and J62 are
**off** (they are on by default when boards ship from the factory) to ensure
SWD signals are disconnected from the OpenSDA microcontroller.

Configuring a Console
=====================

Regardless of your choice in debug probe, we will use the OpenSDA
microcontroller as a usb-to-serial adapter for the serial console. Check that
jumpers J31 and J32 are **on** (they are on by default when boards ship from
the factory) to connect UART signals to the OpenSDA microcontroller.

Connect a USB cable from your PC to J41.

Use the following settings with your serial terminal of choice (minicom, putty,
etc.):

- Speed: 115200
- Data: 8 bits
- Parity: None
- Stop bits: 1

Flashing
========

Here is an example for the :ref:`hello_world` application.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
    :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
    :board: mimxrt1010_evk
    :goals: flash

Open a serial terminal, reset the board (press the SW9 button), and you should
see the following message in the terminal:

.. code-block:: console

    Hello World! mimxrt1010_evk


.. _MIMXRT1010-EVK Website:
   https://www.nxp.com/MIMXRT1010-EVK

.. _MIMXRT1010-EVK User Guide:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=MIMXRT1010EVKHUG

.. _MIMXRT1010-EVK Design Files:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=IMXRT1010-EVK-DESIGN-FILES

.. _i.MX RT1010 Website:
   https://www.nxp.com/imxrt1010

.. _i.MX RT1010 Datasheet:
   https://www.nxp.com/docs/en/data-sheet/IMXRT1010CEC.pdf

.. _i.MX RT1010 Reference Manual:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=IMXRT1010RM
