boards/arm/mimxrt1020_evk/doc/index.rst, before:

.. _mimxrt1020_evk:

NXP MIMXRT1020-EVK
##################

Overview
********

The i.MX RT1020 expands the i.MX RT crossover processor families by providing
high-performance feature set in low-cost LQFP packages, further simplifying
board design and layout for customers. The i.MX RT1020 runs on the Arm®
Cortex®-M7 core at 500 MHz.

.. image:: mimxrt1020_evk.jpg
   :align: center
   :alt: MIMXRT1020-EVK

Hardware
********

- MIMXRT1021DAG5A MCU

- Memory

  - 256 Mbit SDRAM
  - 64 Mbit QSPI Flash
  - TF socket for SD card

- Connectivity

  - 10/100 Mbit/s Ethernet PHY
  - Micro USB host and OTG connectors
  - CAN transceivers
  - Arduino interface

- Audio

  - Audio Codec
  - 4-pole audio headphone jack
  - Microphone
  - External speaker connection

- Power

  - 5 V DC jack

- Debug

  - JTAG 20-pin connector
  - OpenSDA with DAPLink

For more information about the MIMXRT1020 SoC and MIMXRT1020-EVK board, see
these references:

- `i.MX RT1020 Website`_
- `i.MX RT1020 Datasheet`_
- `i.MX RT1020 Reference Manual`_
- `MIMXRT1020-EVK Website`_
- `MIMXRT1020-EVK User Guide`_
- `MIMXRT1020-EVK Design Files`_

Supported Features
==================

The mimxrt1020_evk board configuration supports the hardware features listed
below.  For additional features not yet supported, please also refer to the
:ref:`mimxrt1064_evk` , which is the superset board in NXP's i.MX RT10xx family.
NXP prioritizes enabling the superset board with NXP's Full Platform Support for
Zephyr.  Therefore, the mimxrt1064_evk board may have additional features
already supported, which can also be re-used on this mimxrt1020_evk board:

+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component                    |
+===========+============+=====================================+
| NVIC      | on-chip    | nested vector interrupt controller  |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SYSTICK   | on-chip    | systick                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| FLASH     | on-chip    | QSPI flash                          |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| GPIO      | on-chip    | gpio                                |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SPI       | on-chip    | spi                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| I2C       | on-chip    | i2c                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SDHC      | on-chip    | disk access                         |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| UART      | on-chip    | serial port-polling;                |
|           |            | serial port-interrupt               |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| ENET      | on-chip    | ethernet                            |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| USB       | on-chip    | USB device                          |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| ADC       | on-chip    | adc                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| GPT       | on-chip    | gpt                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| TRNG      | on-chip    | entropy                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| FLEXSPI   | on-chip    | flash programming                   |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+

The default configuration can be found in the defconfig file:
``boards/arm/mimxrt1020_evk/mimxrt1020_evk_defconfig``

Other hardware features are not currently supported by the port.

Connections and I/Os
====================

The MIMXRT1020 SoC has five pairs of pinmux/gpio controllers.

+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| Name          | Function        | Usage                     |
+===============+=================+===========================+
| GPIO_AD_B0_05 | GPIO            | LED                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_06 | LPUART1_TX      | UART Console              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_07 | LPUART1_RX      | UART Console              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_08 | LPUART2_TX      | UART BT HCI               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_09 | LPUART2_RX      | UART BT HCI               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_14 | LPI2C1_SCL      | I2C                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_15 | LPI2C1_SDA      | I2C                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_02 | LPI2C4_SCL      | I2C                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_03 | LPI2C4_SDA      | I2C                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| WAKEUP        | GPIO            | SW0                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_04 | ENET_RST        | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_08 | ENET_REF_CLK    | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_09 | ENET_RX_DATA01  | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_10 | ENET_RX_DATA00/LPSPI1_SCK | Ethernet/SPI    |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_11 | ENET_RX_EN/LPSPI1_PCS0 | Ethernet/SPI       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_12 | ENET_RX_ER/LPSPI1_SDO | Ethernet/SPI        |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_13 | ENET_TX_EN/LPSPI1_SDI | Ethernet/SPI        |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_14 | ENET_TX_DATA00  | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_15 | ENET_TX_DATA01  | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_06 | ENET_INT        | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_EMC_41   | ENET_MDC        | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_EMC_40   | ENET_MDIO       | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_07 | USDHC1_VSELECT  | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_02 | USDHC1_CMD      | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_03 | USDHC1_CLK      | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_04 | USDHC1_DATA0    | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_05 | USDHC1_DATA1    | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_00 | USDHC1_DATA2    | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_01 | USDHC1_DATA3    | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_06 | USDHC1_CD_B     | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_10 | ADC             | ADC1 Channel 10           |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_11 | ADC             | ADC1 Channel 11           |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+

System Clock
============

The MIMXRT1020 SoC is configured to use the 32 KHz low frequency oscillator on
the board as a source for the GPT timer to generate a system clock.

Serial Port
===========

The MIMXRT1020 SoC has eight UARTs. ``LPUART1`` is configured for the console,
``LPUART2`` for the Bluetooth Host Controller Interface (BT HCI), and the
remaining are not used.

Programming and Debugging
*************************

Build and flash applications as usual (see :ref:`build_an_application` and
:ref:`application_run` for more details).

Configuring a Debug Probe
=========================

A debug probe is used for both flashing and debugging the board. This board is
configured by default to use the :ref:`opensda-daplink-onboard-debug-probe`,
however the :ref:`pyocd-debug-host-tools` do not yet support programming the
external flashes on this board so you must reconfigure the board for one of the
following debug probes instead.

Option 1: :ref:`opensda-jlink-onboard-debug-probe` (Recommended)
----------------------------------------------------------------

Install the :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools` and make sure they are in your search
path.

Follow the instructions in :ref:`opensda-jlink-onboard-debug-probe` to program
the `OpenSDA J-Link MIMXRT1020-EVK Firmware`_. Check that jumpers J27 and J28
are **on** (they are on by default when boards ship from the factory) to ensure
SWD signals are connected to the OpenSDA microcontroller.

Option 2: :ref:`jlink-external-debug-probe`
-------------------------------------------

Install the :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools` and make sure they are in your search
path.

Attach a J-Link 20-pin connector to J16. Check that jumpers J27 and J28 are
**off** (they are on by default when boards ship from the factory) to ensure
SWD signals are disconnected from the OpenSDA microcontroller.

Configuring a Console
=====================

Regardless of your choice in debug probe, we will use the OpenSDA
microcontroller as a usb-to-serial adapter for the serial console. Check that
jumpers J25 and J26 are **on** (they are on by default when boards ship from
the factory) to connect UART signals to the OpenSDA microcontroller.

Connect a USB cable from your PC to J23.

Use the following settings with your serial terminal of choice (minicom, putty,
etc.):

- Speed: 115200
- Data: 8 bits
- Parity: None
- Stop bits: 1

Flashing
========

Here is an example for the :ref:`hello_world` application.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: mimxrt1020_evk
   :goals: flash

Open a serial terminal, reset the board (press the SW5 button), and you should
see the following message in the terminal:

.. code-block:: console

   ***** Booting Zephyr OS v1.14.0-rc1 *****
   Hello World! mimxrt1020_evk

Debugging
=========

Here is an example for the :ref:`hello_world` application.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: mimxrt1020_evk
   :goals: debug

Open a serial terminal, step through the application in your debugger, and you
should see the following message in the terminal:

.. code-block:: console

   ***** Booting Zephyr OS v1.14.0-rc1 *****
   Hello World! mimxrt1020_evk

.. _MIMXRT1020-EVK Website:
   https://www.nxp.com/support/developer-resources/run-time-software/i.mx-developer-resources/i.mx-rt1020-evaluation-kit:MIMXRT1020-EVK

.. _MIMXRT1020-EVK User Guide:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=MIMXRT1020EVKHUG

.. _MIMXRT1020-EVK Design Files:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=MIMXRT1020-EVK-Design-Files

.. _i.MX RT1020 Website:
   https://www.nxp.com/products/processors-and-microcontrollers/arm-based-processors-and-mcus/i.mx-applications-processors/i.mx-rt-series/i.mx-rt1020-crossover-processor-with-arm-cortex-m7-core:i.MX-RT1020

.. _i.MX RT1020 Datasheet:
   https://www.nxp.com/docs/en/data-sheet/IMXRT1020CEC.pdf

.. _i.MX RT1020 Reference Manual:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=IMXRT1020RM

.. _OpenSDA J-Link MIMXRT1020-EVK Firmware:
   https://www.segger.com/downloads/jlink/OpenSDA_MIMXRT1020-EVK

Commit message:

boards: arm: update documentation for imxrt to reflect use of systick
Update documentation for imxrt boards to reflect the default clock
source being systick, and clarify that the GPT timer will only be
used in low power modes. Add a build time warning when the GPT
timer is enabled, so that the user will be aware of the resolution
tradeoff when using the GPT timer.

Signed-off-by: Daniel DeGrasse <daniel.degrasse@nxp.com>

boards/arm/mimxrt1020_evk/doc/index.rst, after:

.. _mimxrt1020_evk:

NXP MIMXRT1020-EVK
##################

Overview
********

The i.MX RT1020 expands the i.MX RT crossover processor families by providing
high-performance feature set in low-cost LQFP packages, further simplifying
board design and layout for customers. The i.MX RT1020 runs on the Arm®
Cortex®-M7 core at 500 MHz.

.. image:: mimxrt1020_evk.jpg
   :align: center
   :alt: MIMXRT1020-EVK

Hardware
********

- MIMXRT1021DAG5A MCU

- Memory

  - 256 Mbit SDRAM
  - 64 Mbit QSPI Flash
  - TF socket for SD card

- Connectivity

  - 10/100 Mbit/s Ethernet PHY
  - Micro USB host and OTG connectors
  - CAN transceivers
  - Arduino interface

- Audio

  - Audio Codec
  - 4-pole audio headphone jack
  - Microphone
  - External speaker connection

- Power

  - 5 V DC jack

- Debug

  - JTAG 20-pin connector
  - OpenSDA with DAPLink

For more information about the MIMXRT1020 SoC and MIMXRT1020-EVK board, see
these references:

- `i.MX RT1020 Website`_
- `i.MX RT1020 Datasheet`_
- `i.MX RT1020 Reference Manual`_
- `MIMXRT1020-EVK Website`_
- `MIMXRT1020-EVK User Guide`_
- `MIMXRT1020-EVK Design Files`_

Supported Features
==================

The mimxrt1020_evk board configuration supports the hardware features listed
below.  For additional features not yet supported, please also refer to the
:ref:`mimxrt1064_evk` , which is the superset board in NXP's i.MX RT10xx family.
NXP prioritizes enabling the superset board with NXP's Full Platform Support for
Zephyr.  Therefore, the mimxrt1064_evk board may have additional features
already supported, which can also be re-used on this mimxrt1020_evk board:

+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component                    |
+===========+============+=====================================+
| NVIC      | on-chip    | nested vector interrupt controller  |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SYSTICK   | on-chip    | systick                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| FLASH     | on-chip    | QSPI flash                          |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| GPIO      | on-chip    | gpio                                |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SPI       | on-chip    | spi                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| I2C       | on-chip    | i2c                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SDHC      | on-chip    | disk access                         |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| UART      | on-chip    | serial port-polling;                |
|           |            | serial port-interrupt               |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| ENET      | on-chip    | ethernet                            |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| USB       | on-chip    | USB device                          |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| ADC       | on-chip    | adc                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| GPT       | on-chip    | gpt                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| TRNG      | on-chip    | entropy                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| FLEXSPI   | on-chip    | flash programming                   |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+

The default configuration can be found in the defconfig file:
``boards/arm/mimxrt1020_evk/mimxrt1020_evk_defconfig``

Other hardware features are not currently supported by the port.

Connections and I/Os
====================

The MIMXRT1020 SoC has five pairs of pinmux/gpio controllers.

+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| Name          | Function        | Usage                     |
+===============+=================+===========================+
| GPIO_AD_B0_05 | GPIO            | LED                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_06 | LPUART1_TX      | UART Console              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_07 | LPUART1_RX      | UART Console              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_08 | LPUART2_TX      | UART BT HCI               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_09 | LPUART2_RX      | UART BT HCI               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_14 | LPI2C1_SCL      | I2C                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_15 | LPI2C1_SDA      | I2C                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_02 | LPI2C4_SCL      | I2C                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_03 | LPI2C4_SDA      | I2C                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| WAKEUP        | GPIO            | SW0                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_04 | ENET_RST        | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_08 | ENET_REF_CLK    | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_09 | ENET_RX_DATA01  | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_10 | ENET_RX_DATA00/LPSPI1_SCK | Ethernet/SPI    |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_11 | ENET_RX_EN/LPSPI1_PCS0 | Ethernet/SPI       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_12 | ENET_RX_ER/LPSPI1_SDO | Ethernet/SPI        |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_13 | ENET_TX_EN/LPSPI1_SDI | Ethernet/SPI        |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_14 | ENET_TX_DATA00  | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_15 | ENET_TX_DATA01  | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_06 | ENET_INT        | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_EMC_41   | ENET_MDC        | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_EMC_40   | ENET_MDIO       | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_07 | USDHC1_VSELECT  | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_02 | USDHC1_CMD      | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_03 | USDHC1_CLK      | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_04 | USDHC1_DATA0    | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_05 | USDHC1_DATA1    | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_00 | USDHC1_DATA2    | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_01 | USDHC1_DATA3    | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_06 | USDHC1_CD_B     | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_10 | ADC             | ADC1 Channel 10           |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_11 | ADC             | ADC1 Channel 11           |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+

System Clock
============

The MIMXRT1020 SoC is configured to use SysTick as the system clock source,
running at 500MHz.

When power management is enabled, the 32 KHz low frequency
oscillator on the board will be used as a source for the GPT timer to
generate a system clock. This clock enables lower power states, at the
cost of reduced resolution


Serial Port
===========

The MIMXRT1020 SoC has eight UARTs. ``LPUART1`` is configured for the console,
``LPUART2`` for the Bluetooth Host Controller Interface (BT HCI), and the
remaining are not used.

Programming and Debugging
*************************

Build and flash applications as usual (see :ref:`build_an_application` and
:ref:`application_run` for more details).

Configuring a Debug Probe
=========================

A debug probe is used for both flashing and debugging the board. This board is
configured by default to use the :ref:`opensda-daplink-onboard-debug-probe`,
however the :ref:`pyocd-debug-host-tools` do not yet support programming the
external flashes on this board so you must reconfigure the board for one of the
following debug probes instead.

Option 1: :ref:`opensda-jlink-onboard-debug-probe` (Recommended)
----------------------------------------------------------------

Install the :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools` and make sure they are in your search
path.

Follow the instructions in :ref:`opensda-jlink-onboard-debug-probe` to program
the `OpenSDA J-Link MIMXRT1020-EVK Firmware`_. Check that jumpers J27 and J28
are **on** (they are on by default when boards ship from the factory) to ensure
SWD signals are connected to the OpenSDA microcontroller.

Option 2: :ref:`jlink-external-debug-probe`
-------------------------------------------

Install the :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools` and make sure they are in your search
path.

Attach a J-Link 20-pin connector to J16. Check that jumpers J27 and J28 are
**off** (they are on by default when boards ship from the factory) to ensure
SWD signals are disconnected from the OpenSDA microcontroller.

Configuring a Console
=====================

Regardless of your choice in debug probe, we will use the OpenSDA
microcontroller as a usb-to-serial adapter for the serial console. Check that
jumpers J25 and J26 are **on** (they are on by default when boards ship from
the factory) to connect UART signals to the OpenSDA microcontroller.

Connect a USB cable from your PC to J23.

Use the following settings with your serial terminal of choice (minicom, putty,
etc.):

- Speed: 115200
- Data: 8 bits
- Parity: None
- Stop bits: 1

Flashing
========

Here is an example for the :ref:`hello_world` application.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: mimxrt1020_evk
   :goals: flash

Open a serial terminal, reset the board (press the SW5 button), and you should
see the following message in the terminal:

.. code-block:: console

   ***** Booting Zephyr OS v1.14.0-rc1 *****
   Hello World! mimxrt1020_evk

Debugging
=========

Here is an example for the :ref:`hello_world` application.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: mimxrt1020_evk
   :goals: debug

Open a serial terminal, step through the application in your debugger, and you
should see the following message in the terminal:

.. code-block:: console

   ***** Booting Zephyr OS v1.14.0-rc1 *****
   Hello World! mimxrt1020_evk

.. _MIMXRT1020-EVK Website:
   https://www.nxp.com/support/developer-resources/run-time-software/i.mx-developer-resources/i.mx-rt1020-evaluation-kit:MIMXRT1020-EVK

.. _MIMXRT1020-EVK User Guide:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=MIMXRT1020EVKHUG

.. _MIMXRT1020-EVK Design Files:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=MIMXRT1020-EVK-Design-Files

.. _i.MX RT1020 Website:
   https://www.nxp.com/products/processors-and-microcontrollers/arm-based-processors-and-mcus/i.mx-applications-processors/i.mx-rt-series/i.mx-rt1020-crossover-processor-with-arm-cortex-m7-core:i.MX-RT1020

.. _i.MX RT1020 Datasheet:
   https://www.nxp.com/docs/en/data-sheet/IMXRT1020CEC.pdf

.. _i.MX RT1020 Reference Manual:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=IMXRT1020RM

.. _OpenSDA J-Link MIMXRT1020-EVK Firmware:
   https://www.segger.com/downloads/jlink/OpenSDA_MIMXRT1020-EVK
