boards/arm/thingy53_nrf5340/doc/index.rst, before:

.. _thingy53_nrf5340:

Thingy:53
#########

Overview
********

Zephyr uses the thingy53_nrf5340 board configuration for building
for the Thingy:53 board. The board has the nRF5340 MCU processor, a set of
environmental sensors, a pushbutton, and RGB LED.

The nRF5340 is a dual-core SoC based on the Arm® Cortex®-M33 architecture, with:

* a full-featured Arm Cortex-M33F core with DSP instructions, FPU, and
  Armv8-M Security Extension, running at up to 128 MHz, referred to as
  the **application core**
* a secondary Arm Cortex-M33 core, with a reduced feature set, running at
  a fixed 64 MHz, referred to as the **network core**.

The nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp build target provides support for the application
core on the nRF5340 SoC. The nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpunet build target provides
support for the network core on the nRF5340 SoC.


The `Nordic Semiconductor Infocenter`_ contains the processor's information and
the datasheet.

Programming and Debugging
*************************

Flashing
========

Flashing Zephyr onto Thingy:53 requires an external J-Link programmer. The
programmer is attached to the P9 programming header.

Debugging
=========

Thingy:53 does not have an on-board J-Link debug IC as some other nRF5
development boards, however, instructions from the :ref:`nordic_segger` page
also apply to this board, with the additional step of connecting an external
debugger. A development board with a Debug out connector such as the
:ref:`nrf5340dk_nrf5340` can be used as a debugger with Thingy:53.

References
**********

.. target-notes::

.. _Nordic Semiconductor Infocenter: http://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/

Commit message:

doc: add note for missing tf-m/ns target support
All nRF91 and nRF5340 boards (except the DKs)
should document a note stating that TF-M/_ns
is currently not supported.

Signed-off-by: Mia Koen <mia.koen@nordicsemi.no>

boards/arm/thingy53_nrf5340/doc/index.rst, after:

.. _thingy53_nrf5340:

Thingy:53
#########

Overview
********

Zephyr uses the thingy53_nrf5340 board configuration for building
for the Thingy:53 board. The board has the nRF5340 MCU processor, a set of
environmental sensors, a pushbutton, and RGB LED.

The nRF5340 is a dual-core SoC based on the Arm® Cortex®-M33 architecture, with:

* a full-featured Arm Cortex-M33F core with DSP instructions, FPU, and
  Armv8-M Security Extension, running at up to 128 MHz, referred to as
  the **application core**
* a secondary Arm Cortex-M33 core, with a reduced feature set, running at
  a fixed 64 MHz, referred to as the **network core**.

The nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp build target provides support for the application
core on the nRF5340 SoC. The nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpunet build target provides
support for the network core on the nRF5340 SoC.

.. note::
   Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) and building the ``ns`` target is not supported for this board.

The `Nordic Semiconductor Infocenter`_ contains the processor's information and
the datasheet.

Programming and Debugging
*************************

Flashing
========

Flashing Zephyr onto Thingy:53 requires an external J-Link programmer. The
programmer is attached to the P9 programming header.

Debugging
=========

Thingy:53 does not have an on-board J-Link debug IC as some other nRF5
development boards, however, instructions from the :ref:`nordic_segger` page
also apply to this board, with the additional step of connecting an external
debugger. A development board with a Debug out connector such as the
:ref:`nrf5340dk_nrf5340` can be used as a debugger with Thingy:53.

References
**********

.. target-notes::

.. _Nordic Semiconductor Infocenter: http://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/
