boards/arm/mimxrt1064_evk/doc/index.rst, before:

.. _mimxrt1064_evk:

NXP MIMXRT1064-EVK
##################

Overview
********

The i.MX RT1064 adds to the industry's first crossover
processor series and expands the i.MX RT series to three scalable families.
The i.MX RT1064 doubles the On-Chip SRAM to 1MB while keeping pin-to-pin
compatibility with i.MX RT1050. This series introduces additional features
ideal for real-time applications such as High-Speed GPIO, CAN-FD, and
synchronous parallel NAND/NOR/PSRAM controller. The i.MX RT1064 runs on the
Arm® Cortex-M7® core up to 600 MHz.

.. image:: mimxrt1064_evk.jpg
   :align: center
   :alt: MIMXRT1064-EVK

Hardware
********

- MIMXRT1064DVL6A MCU (600 MHz, 1024 KB on-chip memory, 4096KB on-chip QSPI
  flash)

- Memory

  - 256 Mbit SDRAM
  - 64 Mbit QSPI Flash
  - 512 Mbit Hyper Flash
  - TF socket for SD card

- Display

  - LCD connector

- Ethernet

  - 10/100 Mbit/s Ethernet PHY

- USB

  - USB 2.0 OTG connector
  - USB 2.0 host connector

- Audio

  - 3.5 mm audio stereo headphone jack
  - Board-mounted microphone
  - Left and right speaker out connectors

- Power

  - 5 V DC jack

- Debug

  - JTAG 20-pin connector
  - OpenSDA with DAPLink

- Sensor

  - FXOS8700CQ 6-axis e-compass
  - CMOS camera sensor interface

- Expansion port

  - Arduino interface

- CAN bus connector

For more information about the MIMXRT1064 SoC and MIMXRT1064-EVK board, see
these references:

- `i.MX RT1064 Website`_
- `i.MX RT1064 Datasheet`_
- `i.MX RT1064 Reference Manual`_
- `MIMXRT1064-EVK Website`_
- `MIMXRT1064-EVK Quick Reference Guide`_
- `MIMXRT1064-EVK User Guide`_
- `MIMXRT1064-EVK Schematics`_

Supported Features
==================

NXP considers the MIMXRT1064-EVK as the superset board for the i.MX RT10xx
family of MCUs.  This board is a focus for NXP's Full Platform Support for
Zephyr, to better enable the entire RT10xx family.  NXP prioritizes enabling
this board with new support for Zephyr features.  The mimxrt1064_evk board
configuration supports the following hardware features:

+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component                    |
+===========+============+=====================================+
| NVIC      | on-chip    | nested vector interrupt controller  |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SYSTICK   | on-chip    | systick                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| DISPLAY   | on-chip    | display                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| VIDEO     | on-chip    | video, using CSI                    |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| FLASH     | on-chip    | QSPI flash                          |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| GPIO      | on-chip    | gpio                                |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| I2C       | on-chip    | i2c                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| WATCHDOG  | on-chip    | watchdog                            |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| PWM       | on-chip    | pwm                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SDHC      | on-chip    | disk access                         |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| UART      | on-chip    | serial port-polling;                |
|           |            | serial port-interrupt               |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| ADC       | on-chip    | adc                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| ENET      | on-chip    | ethernet                            |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| USB       | on-chip    | USB device                          |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| CAN       | on-chip    | can                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SPI       | on-chip    | spi                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| GPT       | on-chip    | gpt                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| DMA       | on-chip    | dma                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| HWINFO    | on-chip    | Unique device serial number         |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| TRNG      | on-chip    | entropy                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| FLEXSPI   | on-chip    | flash programming                   |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+

The default configuration can be found in the defconfig file:
``boards/arm/mimxrt1064_evk/mimxrt1064_evk_defconfig``

Other hardware features are not currently supported by the port.

Connections and I/Os
====================

The MIMXRT1064 SoC has four pairs of pinmux/gpio controllers.

+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| Name          | Function        | Usage                     |
+===============+=================+===========================+
| GPIO_AD_B0_00 | LPSPI1_SCK      | SPI                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_01 | LPSPI1_SDO      | SPI                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_02 | LPSPI3_SDI/LCD_RST| SPI/LCD Display         |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_03 | LPSPI3_PCS0     | SPI                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_05 | GPIO            | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_09 | GPIO/ENET_RST   | LED/Ethernet              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_10 | GPIO/ENET_INT   | GPIO/Ethernet             |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_11 | GPIO            | Touch Interrupt           |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_12 | LPUART1_TX      | UART Console              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_13 | LPUART1_RX      | UART Console              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_06 | LPUART3_TX      | UART Arduino              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_07 | LPUART3_RX      | UART Arduino              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| WAKEUP        | GPIO            | SW0                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_00    | LCD_CLK         | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_01    | LCD_ENABLE      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_02    | LCD_HSYNC       | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_03    | LCD_VSYNC       | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_04    | LCD_DATA00      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_05    | LCD_DATA01      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_06    | LCD_DATA02      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_07    | LCD_DATA03      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_08    | LCD_DATA04      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_09    | LCD_DATA05      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_10    | LCD_DATA06      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_11    | LCD_DATA07      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_12    | LCD_DATA08      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_13    | LCD_DATA09      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_14    | LCD_DATA10      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_15    | LCD_DATA11      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_00    | LCD_DATA12      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_01    | LCD_DATA13      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_02    | LCD_DATA14      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_03    | LCD_DATA15      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_04    | ENET_RX_DATA00  | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_05    | ENET_RX_DATA01  | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_06    | ENET_RX_EN      | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_07    | ENET_TX_DATA00  | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_08    | ENET_TX_DATA01  | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_09    | ENET_TX_EN      | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_10    | ENET_REF_CLK    | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_11    | ENET_RX_ER      | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_12    | GPIO            | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_14    | USDHC1_VSELECT  | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_15    | BACKLIGHT_CTL   | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_EMC_40   | ENET_MDC        | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_EMC_41   | ENET_MDIO       | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_09 | ENET_RST        | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_10 | ENET_INT        | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_00 | USDHC1_CMD/LPSPI1_SCK | SD Card/SPI         |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_01 | USDHC1_CLK/LPSPI1_PCS0 | SD Card/SPI        |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_02 | USDHC1_DATA0/LPSPI1_SDO | SD Card/SPI       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_03 | USDHC1_DATA1/LPSPI1_SDI | SD Card/SPI       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_04 | USDHC1_DATA2    | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_05 | USDHC1_DATA3    | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_05 | FLEXSPIA_DQS    | QSPI Flash                |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_06 | FLEXSPIA_SS0_B  | QSPI Flash                |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_07 | FLEXSPIA_SCLK   | QSPI Flash                |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_08 | FLEXSPIA_DATA00 | QSPI Flash                |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_09 | FLEXSPIA_DATA01 | QSPI Flash                |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_10 | FLEXSPIA_DATA02 | QSPI Flash                |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_11 | FLEXSPIA_DATA03 | QSPI Flash                |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_11 | ADC             | ADC1 Channel 0            |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_10 | ADC             | ADC1 Channel 1            |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+

.. note::
        In order to use the SPI peripheral on this board, resistors R278, R279,
        R280 and R281 must be populated with zero ohm resistors

System Clock
============

The MIMXRT1064 SoC is configured to use the 32 KHz low frequency oscillator on
the board as a source for the GPT timer to generate a system clock.

Serial Port
===========

The MIMXRT1064 SoC has eight UARTs. ``LPUART1`` is configured for the console
and the remaining are not used.

Programming and Debugging
*************************

Build and flash applications as usual (see :ref:`build_an_application` and
:ref:`application_run` for more details).

Configuring a Debug Probe
=========================

.. note::
	When the device transitions into low power states, the debugger may be
	unable to access the chip. Use caution when enabling ``CONFIG_PM``, and
	if the debugger cannot flash the part, see :ref:`Troubleshooting RT1064`

A debug probe is used for both flashing and debugging the board. This board is
configured by default to use the :ref:`opensda-daplink-onboard-debug-probe`,
however the :ref:`pyocd-debug-host-tools` do not yet support programming the
external flashes on this board so you must reconfigure the board for one of the
following debug probes instead.

.. _Using J-Link RT1064:

Using J-Link
---------------------------------

Install the :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools` and make sure they are in your search
path.

There are two options: the onboard debug circuit can be updated with Segger
J-Link firmware, or :ref:`jlink-external-debug-probe` can be attached to the
EVK. See `Using J-Link with MIMXRT1060-EVK or MIMXRT1064-EVK`_ for more
details.

Configuring a Console
=====================

Regardless of your choice in debug probe, we will use the OpenSDA
microcontroller as a usb-to-serial adapter for the serial console. Check that
jumpers J45 and J46 are **on** (they are on by default when boards ship from
the factory) to connect UART signals to the OpenSDA microcontroller.

Connect a USB cable from your PC to J41.

Use the following settings with your serial terminal of choice (minicom, putty,
etc.):

- Speed: 115200
- Data: 8 bits
- Parity: None
- Stop bits: 1

Using SWO
---------
SWO can be used as a logging backend, by setting ``CONFIG_LOG_BACKEND_SWO=y``.
Your SWO viewer should be configured with a CPU frequency of 132MHz, and
SWO frequency of 7500KHz.

Flashing
========

Here is an example for the :ref:`hello_world` application.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: mimxrt1064_evk
   :goals: flash

Open a serial terminal, reset the board (press the SW9 button), and you should
see the following message in the terminal:

.. code-block:: console

   ***** Booting Zephyr OS v1.14.0-rc1 *****
   Hello World! mimxrt1064_evk

Debugging
=========

Here is an example for the :ref:`hello_world` application.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: mimxrt1064_evk
   :goals: debug

Open a serial terminal, step through the application in your debugger, and you
should see the following message in the terminal:

.. code-block:: console

   ***** Booting Zephyr OS v1.14.0-rc1 *****
   Hello World! mimxrt1064_evk


.. _Troubleshooting RT1064:

Troubleshooting
===============

If the debug probe fails to connect with the following error, it's possible
that the boot header in QSPI flash is invalid or corrupted. The boot header is
configured by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NXP_IMX_RT_BOOT_HEADER`.

.. code-block:: console

   Remote debugging using :2331
   Remote communication error.  Target disconnected.: Connection reset by peer.
   "monitor" command not supported by this target.
   "monitor" command not supported by this target.
   You can't do that when your target is `exec'
   (gdb) Could not connect to target.
   Please check power, connection and settings.

You can fix it by erasing and reprogramming the QSPI flash with the following
steps:

#. Set the SW7 DIP switches to ON-OFF-ON-OFF to prevent booting from QSPI flash.

#. Reset by pressing SW9

#. Run ``west debug`` or ``west flash`` again with a known working Zephyr
   application.

#. Set the SW7 DIP switches to OFF-OFF-ON-OFF to boot from QSPI flash.

#. Reset by pressing SW9

If the west flash or debug commands fail, and the command hangs while executing
runners.jlink, confirm the J-Link debug probe is configured, powered, and
connected to the EVK properly.  See :ref:`Using J-Link RT1064` for more
details.

.. _MIMXRT1064-EVK Website:
   https://www.nxp.com/support/developer-resources/run-time-software/i.mx-developer-resources/mimxrt1064-evk-i.mx-rt1064-evaluation-kit:MIMXRT1064-EVK

.. _MIMXRT1064-EVK Quick Reference Guide:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=IMXRT1064QSG

.. _MIMXRT1064-EVK User Guide:
   https://www.nxp.com/docs/en/data-sheet/MIMXRT10601064EKBHUG.pdf

.. _MIMXRT1064-EVK Schematics:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=i.MXRT160EVKDS&Parent_nodeId=1537930933174731284155&Parent_pageType=product

.. _i.MX RT1064 Website:
   https://www.nxp.com/products/processors-and-microcontrollers/arm-based-processors-and-mcus/i.mx-applications-processors/i.mx-rt-series/i.mx-rt1064-crossover-processor-with-arm-cortex-m7-core:i.MX-RT1064

.. _i.MX RT1064 Datasheet:
   https://www.nxp.com/docs/en/data-sheet/IMXRT1064CEC.pdf

.. _i.MX RT1064 Reference Manual:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=IMXRT1064RM

.. _Using J-Link with MIMXRT1060-EVK or MIMXRT1064-EVK:
   https://community.nxp.com/t5/i-MX-RT-Knowledge-Base/Using-J-Link-with-MIMXRT1060-EVK-or-MIMXRT1064-EVK/ta-p/1281149

Commit message:

boards: arm: update documentation for imxrt to reflect use of systick
Update documentation for imxrt boards to reflect the default clock
source being systick, and clarify that the GPT timer will only be
used in low power modes. Add a build time warning when the GPT
timer is enabled, so that the user will be aware of the resolution
tradeoff when using the GPT timer.

Signed-off-by: Daniel DeGrasse <daniel.degrasse@nxp.com>

boards/arm/mimxrt1064_evk/doc/index.rst, after:

.. _mimxrt1064_evk:

NXP MIMXRT1064-EVK
##################

Overview
********

The i.MX RT1064 adds to the industry's first crossover
processor series and expands the i.MX RT series to three scalable families.
The i.MX RT1064 doubles the On-Chip SRAM to 1MB while keeping pin-to-pin
compatibility with i.MX RT1050. This series introduces additional features
ideal for real-time applications such as High-Speed GPIO, CAN-FD, and
synchronous parallel NAND/NOR/PSRAM controller. The i.MX RT1064 runs on the
Arm® Cortex-M7® core up to 600 MHz.

.. image:: mimxrt1064_evk.jpg
   :align: center
   :alt: MIMXRT1064-EVK

Hardware
********

- MIMXRT1064DVL6A MCU (600 MHz, 1024 KB on-chip memory, 4096KB on-chip QSPI
  flash)

- Memory

  - 256 Mbit SDRAM
  - 64 Mbit QSPI Flash
  - 512 Mbit Hyper Flash
  - TF socket for SD card

- Display

  - LCD connector

- Ethernet

  - 10/100 Mbit/s Ethernet PHY

- USB

  - USB 2.0 OTG connector
  - USB 2.0 host connector

- Audio

  - 3.5 mm audio stereo headphone jack
  - Board-mounted microphone
  - Left and right speaker out connectors

- Power

  - 5 V DC jack

- Debug

  - JTAG 20-pin connector
  - OpenSDA with DAPLink

- Sensor

  - FXOS8700CQ 6-axis e-compass
  - CMOS camera sensor interface

- Expansion port

  - Arduino interface

- CAN bus connector

For more information about the MIMXRT1064 SoC and MIMXRT1064-EVK board, see
these references:

- `i.MX RT1064 Website`_
- `i.MX RT1064 Datasheet`_
- `i.MX RT1064 Reference Manual`_
- `MIMXRT1064-EVK Website`_
- `MIMXRT1064-EVK Quick Reference Guide`_
- `MIMXRT1064-EVK User Guide`_
- `MIMXRT1064-EVK Schematics`_

Supported Features
==================

NXP considers the MIMXRT1064-EVK as the superset board for the i.MX RT10xx
family of MCUs.  This board is a focus for NXP's Full Platform Support for
Zephyr, to better enable the entire RT10xx family.  NXP prioritizes enabling
this board with new support for Zephyr features.  The mimxrt1064_evk board
configuration supports the following hardware features:

+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| Interface | Controller | Driver/Component                    |
+===========+============+=====================================+
| NVIC      | on-chip    | nested vector interrupt controller  |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SYSTICK   | on-chip    | systick                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| DISPLAY   | on-chip    | display                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| VIDEO     | on-chip    | video, using CSI                    |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| FLASH     | on-chip    | QSPI flash                          |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| GPIO      | on-chip    | gpio                                |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| I2C       | on-chip    | i2c                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| WATCHDOG  | on-chip    | watchdog                            |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| PWM       | on-chip    | pwm                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SDHC      | on-chip    | disk access                         |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| UART      | on-chip    | serial port-polling;                |
|           |            | serial port-interrupt               |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| ADC       | on-chip    | adc                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| ENET      | on-chip    | ethernet                            |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| USB       | on-chip    | USB device                          |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| CAN       | on-chip    | can                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| SPI       | on-chip    | spi                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| GPT       | on-chip    | gpt                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| DMA       | on-chip    | dma                                 |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| HWINFO    | on-chip    | Unique device serial number         |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| TRNG      | on-chip    | entropy                             |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| FLEXSPI   | on-chip    | flash programming                   |
+-----------+------------+-------------------------------------+

The default configuration can be found in the defconfig file:
``boards/arm/mimxrt1064_evk/mimxrt1064_evk_defconfig``

Other hardware features are not currently supported by the port.

Connections and I/Os
====================

The MIMXRT1064 SoC has four pairs of pinmux/gpio controllers.

+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| Name          | Function        | Usage                     |
+===============+=================+===========================+
| GPIO_AD_B0_00 | LPSPI1_SCK      | SPI                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_01 | LPSPI1_SDO      | SPI                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_02 | LPSPI3_SDI/LCD_RST| SPI/LCD Display         |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_03 | LPSPI3_PCS0     | SPI                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_05 | GPIO            | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_09 | GPIO/ENET_RST   | LED/Ethernet              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_10 | GPIO/ENET_INT   | GPIO/Ethernet             |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_11 | GPIO            | Touch Interrupt           |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_12 | LPUART1_TX      | UART Console              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_13 | LPUART1_RX      | UART Console              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_06 | LPUART3_TX      | UART Arduino              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_07 | LPUART3_RX      | UART Arduino              |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| WAKEUP        | GPIO            | SW0                       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_00    | LCD_CLK         | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_01    | LCD_ENABLE      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_02    | LCD_HSYNC       | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_03    | LCD_VSYNC       | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_04    | LCD_DATA00      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_05    | LCD_DATA01      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_06    | LCD_DATA02      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_07    | LCD_DATA03      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_08    | LCD_DATA04      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_09    | LCD_DATA05      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_10    | LCD_DATA06      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_11    | LCD_DATA07      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_12    | LCD_DATA08      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_13    | LCD_DATA09      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_14    | LCD_DATA10      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B0_15    | LCD_DATA11      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_00    | LCD_DATA12      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_01    | LCD_DATA13      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_02    | LCD_DATA14      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_03    | LCD_DATA15      | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_04    | ENET_RX_DATA00  | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_05    | ENET_RX_DATA01  | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_06    | ENET_RX_EN      | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_07    | ENET_TX_DATA00  | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_08    | ENET_TX_DATA01  | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_09    | ENET_TX_EN      | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_10    | ENET_REF_CLK    | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_11    | ENET_RX_ER      | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_12    | GPIO            | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_14    | USDHC1_VSELECT  | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_B1_15    | BACKLIGHT_CTL   | LCD Display               |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_EMC_40   | ENET_MDC        | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_EMC_41   | ENET_MDIO       | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_09 | ENET_RST        | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B0_10 | ENET_INT        | Ethernet                  |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_00 | USDHC1_CMD/LPSPI1_SCK | SD Card/SPI         |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_01 | USDHC1_CLK/LPSPI1_PCS0 | SD Card/SPI        |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_02 | USDHC1_DATA0/LPSPI1_SDO | SD Card/SPI       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_03 | USDHC1_DATA1/LPSPI1_SDI | SD Card/SPI       |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_04 | USDHC1_DATA2    | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B0_05 | USDHC1_DATA3    | SD Card                   |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_05 | FLEXSPIA_DQS    | QSPI Flash                |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_06 | FLEXSPIA_SS0_B  | QSPI Flash                |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_07 | FLEXSPIA_SCLK   | QSPI Flash                |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_08 | FLEXSPIA_DATA00 | QSPI Flash                |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_09 | FLEXSPIA_DATA01 | QSPI Flash                |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_10 | FLEXSPIA_DATA02 | QSPI Flash                |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_SD_B1_11 | FLEXSPIA_DATA03 | QSPI Flash                |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_11 | ADC             | ADC1 Channel 0            |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+
| GPIO_AD_B1_10 | ADC             | ADC1 Channel 1            |
+---------------+-----------------+---------------------------+

.. note::
        In order to use the SPI peripheral on this board, resistors R278, R279,
        R280 and R281 must be populated with zero ohm resistors

System Clock
============

The MIMXRT1064 SoC is configured to use SysTick as the system clock source,
running at 600MHz.

When power management is enabled, the 32 KHz low frequency
oscillator on the board will be used as a source for the GPT timer to
generate a system clock. This clock enables lower power states, at the
cost of reduced resolution

Serial Port
===========

The MIMXRT1064 SoC has eight UARTs. ``LPUART1`` is configured for the console
and the remaining are not used.

Programming and Debugging
*************************

Build and flash applications as usual (see :ref:`build_an_application` and
:ref:`application_run` for more details).

Configuring a Debug Probe
=========================

.. note::
	When the device transitions into low power states, the debugger may be
	unable to access the chip. Use caution when enabling ``CONFIG_PM``, and
	if the debugger cannot flash the part, see :ref:`Troubleshooting RT1064`

A debug probe is used for both flashing and debugging the board. This board is
configured by default to use the :ref:`opensda-daplink-onboard-debug-probe`,
however the :ref:`pyocd-debug-host-tools` do not yet support programming the
external flashes on this board so you must reconfigure the board for one of the
following debug probes instead.

.. _Using J-Link RT1064:

Using J-Link
---------------------------------

Install the :ref:`jlink-debug-host-tools` and make sure they are in your search
path.

There are two options: the onboard debug circuit can be updated with Segger
J-Link firmware, or :ref:`jlink-external-debug-probe` can be attached to the
EVK. See `Using J-Link with MIMXRT1060-EVK or MIMXRT1064-EVK`_ for more
details.

Configuring a Console
=====================

Regardless of your choice in debug probe, we will use the OpenSDA
microcontroller as a usb-to-serial adapter for the serial console. Check that
jumpers J45 and J46 are **on** (they are on by default when boards ship from
the factory) to connect UART signals to the OpenSDA microcontroller.

Connect a USB cable from your PC to J41.

Use the following settings with your serial terminal of choice (minicom, putty,
etc.):

- Speed: 115200
- Data: 8 bits
- Parity: None
- Stop bits: 1

Using SWO
---------
SWO can be used as a logging backend, by setting ``CONFIG_LOG_BACKEND_SWO=y``.
Your SWO viewer should be configured with a CPU frequency of 132MHz, and
SWO frequency of 7500KHz.

Flashing
========

Here is an example for the :ref:`hello_world` application.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: mimxrt1064_evk
   :goals: flash

Open a serial terminal, reset the board (press the SW9 button), and you should
see the following message in the terminal:

.. code-block:: console

   ***** Booting Zephyr OS v1.14.0-rc1 *****
   Hello World! mimxrt1064_evk

Debugging
=========

Here is an example for the :ref:`hello_world` application.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/hello_world
   :board: mimxrt1064_evk
   :goals: debug

Open a serial terminal, step through the application in your debugger, and you
should see the following message in the terminal:

.. code-block:: console

   ***** Booting Zephyr OS v1.14.0-rc1 *****
   Hello World! mimxrt1064_evk


.. _Troubleshooting RT1064:

Troubleshooting
===============

If the debug probe fails to connect with the following error, it's possible
that the boot header in QSPI flash is invalid or corrupted. The boot header is
configured by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NXP_IMX_RT_BOOT_HEADER`.

.. code-block:: console

   Remote debugging using :2331
   Remote communication error.  Target disconnected.: Connection reset by peer.
   "monitor" command not supported by this target.
   "monitor" command not supported by this target.
   You can't do that when your target is `exec'
   (gdb) Could not connect to target.
   Please check power, connection and settings.

You can fix it by erasing and reprogramming the QSPI flash with the following
steps:

#. Set the SW7 DIP switches to ON-OFF-ON-OFF to prevent booting from QSPI flash.

#. Reset by pressing SW9

#. Run ``west debug`` or ``west flash`` again with a known working Zephyr
   application.

#. Set the SW7 DIP switches to OFF-OFF-ON-OFF to boot from QSPI flash.

#. Reset by pressing SW9

If the west flash or debug commands fail, and the command hangs while executing
runners.jlink, confirm the J-Link debug probe is configured, powered, and
connected to the EVK properly.  See :ref:`Using J-Link RT1064` for more
details.

.. _MIMXRT1064-EVK Website:
   https://www.nxp.com/support/developer-resources/run-time-software/i.mx-developer-resources/mimxrt1064-evk-i.mx-rt1064-evaluation-kit:MIMXRT1064-EVK

.. _MIMXRT1064-EVK Quick Reference Guide:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=IMXRT1064QSG

.. _MIMXRT1064-EVK User Guide:
   https://www.nxp.com/docs/en/data-sheet/MIMXRT10601064EKBHUG.pdf

.. _MIMXRT1064-EVK Schematics:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=i.MXRT160EVKDS&Parent_nodeId=1537930933174731284155&Parent_pageType=product

.. _i.MX RT1064 Website:
   https://www.nxp.com/products/processors-and-microcontrollers/arm-based-processors-and-mcus/i.mx-applications-processors/i.mx-rt-series/i.mx-rt1064-crossover-processor-with-arm-cortex-m7-core:i.MX-RT1064

.. _i.MX RT1064 Datasheet:
   https://www.nxp.com/docs/en/data-sheet/IMXRT1064CEC.pdf

.. _i.MX RT1064 Reference Manual:
   https://www.nxp.com/webapp/Download?colCode=IMXRT1064RM

.. _Using J-Link with MIMXRT1060-EVK or MIMXRT1064-EVK:
   https://community.nxp.com/t5/i-MX-RT-Knowledge-Base/Using-J-Link-with-MIMXRT1060-EVK-or-MIMXRT1064-EVK/ta-p/1281149
